A sentiment is a "disposition to have an emotion" according to Prinz. Following from this, disapprobation is a "sentiment" or a "disposition to have emotions of blame towards self or others". How exactly do sentiments form? Do all sentiments supervene on an unconscious empathetic response? Prinz gives the example of stealing, which elicits "anger" when committed by others and "guilt" when committed by the self. However, can't sentiments be strengthened by certain empathetic experiences? For example, if a family member is stolen from, your empathetic response adds, or could create a new, sentiment that guides you. Which would underscore an important causal role of empathy within moral judgements. 

Blair asserts that children are able to distinguish "moral and conventional rules because the former are emotionally grounded. However, Prinz argues against this by stating that children "draw the moral/conventional distinction well before they associate empathy with morality". In defending this claim, he cites the claim that this distinction is not present in their reasoning before the third birthday and doesn't play an active role until high school. My question is: how are these testable metrics? How do we separate an emotional response from an empathetic one within children? How can we be sure that a child isn't deriving moral rules from an empathetic response? 

A child is able to appreciate how their actions affect others and, given some guidance from an adult figure, is able to construct certain guidelines for their own behaviour going forward. The distinction between these cases and other "conventional rules", such as not eating cookies before bed, is that the child is able to use the consequence of their action (the empathetic response) as a reason in the formation of the moral judgement. Doesn't this highlight the importance of empathy in moral development?
