> A fundamental innovation of the ancient Greek world was the creation of a new monetary tool: coined precious metal (Howgego 1990, 1995: 1–18; Kroll 2012; Meadows 2008; and Schaps 2004). Beyond the technicalities and the basic requirement necessary to the implementation of the system (the presence of abundant sources of precious metal in the Aegean area), the transformation of raw silver money (as used in the Near East and in Greece before the introduction of coined money) into coins meant a radical transformation of the role of money in social relations. In the Mesopotamian or eastern Mediterranean tradition in general, money was kept totally private. It was a commodity selected by transaction partners and its precise composition was determined by the dominant parties in the transaction. In this regard, the state itself did not behave differently from any temple, banker, or landlord. In the Greek world, coined money meant that the city was present in all transactions, that all transactions involved the city and potentially all its members. Transacting in a city meant using only the currency to which the city gave the status of legal tender. Thus the space of valuable transactions was under the control of the city. These transactions were now socialized: instead of being the object of a pure balance of power between individuals, they became part of the reciprocity network that defined the Greek city (Bresson 2005a for late classical and Hellenistic periods). This is exactly what Plato had in mind when in the Republic (2 369c–371e) he defined the Greek city as a community whose members constantly transacted with one another to their mutual benefit (Bloom 1991: 46–48). 

From The Cambridge History of Capitalism Volume 1, pp 56