1,000 - 1,500 words.
You must upload a statement that explains your academic interest in, understanding of and academic preparedness for the programme(s) you are applying for. You should also explain the academic rationale for applying to the programme(s) you have chosen. If applying for two programmes, you are strongly encouraged to write a separate statement for each programme. The statement of academic purpose is an important part of your application, and selectors are looking for evidence of your academic suitability and motivation, and of what you can contribute academically to the programme. We expect statement(s) to be between 1,000 - 1,500 words.

Please address the following questions/prompts in your statement(s)

Academic Motivations

- What prompted your interest in this particular field of study? Perhaps you have unanswered questions from your undergraduate studies or professional work, or you would like to further explore issues and ideas raised in your curricular or extra-curricular reading?

- Why would you like to study your chosen programme? Perhaps it offers a particular approach, or there are specific modules that will help you develop necessary skills or knowledge. Perhaps the research interests of the academics teaching on your programme, and/or the wider research culture of the department align with your own interests and academic/professional aspirations?


Suitability

- What makes you suitable for this LSE programme? Perhaps you have taken relevant undergraduate modules, or have relevant professional, voluntary, or other experience that has prepared for postgraduate study in this area?

Purpose and Objectives

- What do you hope to get out of this particular LSE programme? How would this particular programme help you to achieve your personal, academic, and professional goals? Take the time to explain your academic or professional aspirations and goals, and how your chosen programme will impart the necessary skills and knowledge. Please avoid general statements about LSE’s performance in global rankings, and generic statements about London being a global/cosmopolitan centre of excellence.

My desire to pursue postgraduate study in the philosophy of science is based on my belief that philosophical work is useful in itself. I believe that my areas of interest, and the research projects I would like to pursue, match well with both a Philosophy of Science program and the faculty at LSE. I hope to eventually complete a PhD and continue to teach philosophy. Despite doing my undergrad in philosophy, I found that the philosophy I wanted to be researching was actually within the philosophy of science. Due to this I sought out courses in this field which matched my research interests. This program offered by LSE seems perfect for my research interests: topics relating to scientific explanation and modelling, philosophy of science approaches to epistemology, and Bayesian epistemology. 

My honours thesis, which achieved a first class mark, explored questions in those last two areas by analysing problems of reliability within Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). I wrote on how different theoretical frameworks affect how we view the results of scientific instruments. A part of my argument was the analysis of how different theories in science will affect the experimental results of an instrument. It became obvious very quickly that how we viewed a scientific instrument depended on how we viewed the relationship between our scientific models and the phenomenon it models. I found that the literature I was encountering came from the philosophy of science, and upon finishing the thesis, realized that I had produced a work closer to the philosophy of science than 'orthodox' philosophy. LSE seems to offer a number of courses related to the ideas I encountered in my thesis. Specifically, on scientific explanation and the relationship between experiment and hypothesis. 

I first became interested in philosophical treatments of AI as a result of my interest in the philosophy of language, which developed out of a course I took in my second year that allowed me to write an essay on an inferentialist interpretation of Wittgenstein. I continued my interest in these topics in an honours class on the sociology of science run by the History and Philosophy of Science department (HPS). In this class, we read widely from the science and technology studies (STS) literature, including their approaches to technology. In this class I scored a high distinction (89). 

My involvement with the HPS department also led to my participation in their postgraduate seminars. We met weekly and discussed topics from Lavoisier to Poincaré. Meetings were led by one member of the group on a text of their choosing. During my week, I chose to read “Objectivity” by Lorraine Daston and Peter Galison, which allowed me to explore problems of epistemology through a philosophy of science lens. I focused on questions relating to the representation of scientific objects and ideas, first exploring the antiquated, largely Linnaean, ideal of ‘pure’ or ‘idealised’ representation, reminiscent of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s Urpflanze, and then the transition to a purely mechanical form of representation that repressed any ‘subjective’ influence of the scientist. This project, when traced historically, appears to reach an endpoint in Rudolf Carnap’s Aufbau and Moritz Schlick’s account of the relation between psychological and physical concepts. LSE seems to have a focus on epistemology, previously I was familiar with epistemology within traditional philosophy. However, I would like to explore philosophy of science approaches to epistemology further. 

It was also through this reading group that I had the chance to meet Professor Ofer Gal, whose History of Science honours seminar class I took and for whom I am currently working as a research assistant. In his seminar class, I wrote my paper on the concept of a Darwinian "revolution" using the historiographical method of William H. Sewell, which scored a 90. Prof. Gal's current project is a history of the passions as an epistemological tool within early modern philosophy. While working this role, I have developed a grounding in a number of key figures, most notably Descartes, Hobbes, and Spinoza, as well as other important, but often passed-over, characters such as Kenelm Digby, Jan Baptist van Helmont, the Cavendish Circle, and Thomas White. My reading of these authors extended my interest in epistemology and provided it with a more historical grounding. I am intrigued by the interactions of the new science and philosophy, in particular, the physicalization of sight and the epistemological anxieties which followed.

One of my responsibilities as a research assistant includes finding relevant sources in both Latin and French, two languages in which I have reading proficiency. I have also audited Sanskrit classes taught by Professor Geisshuesler and have some competency in reading Sanskrit texts. 

On Spinoza, I am also currently working on a paper with Professor Ofer Gal, in which we am attempting to tie his ideas to Thomas White. It seems that White’s work, “The Institutions,” anticipates some major ideas in Spinoza’s Ethics. For example, his conception of substance, which is strikingly similar to Spinoza’s, follows from his idea of the passions as the main “mover of man”, once again an attitude resembling Spinoza’s claim that “desire is the essence of man”. Both of these ideas are used to justify his unique brand of monism. I have presented on this topic at Zhengzhou University. 

Related to my interest in epistemology, last year I had the opportunity to join a wide-ranging weekly analytic philosophy reading group, in which we worked through parts of The Foundations of Frege’s Logic by Pavel Tichý, Word and Object by W. V. O. Quine, and Convention by David Lewis, along with a number of miscellaneous papers. I also joined a separate, short-lived philosophy of biology reading group, in which we read Kathryn Nave’s book on predictive processing: A Drive to Survive. In this group, we explored theories that represent cognition as the Bayesian minimisation of a prediction error. It was through both of these groups, as well as an honours class on epistemic consequentialism, that I became interested in topics relating to formal epistemology, the philosophy and history of mathematics (particularly Frege) set theory, and Bayesian credences. 

In a philosophy seminar course on epistemic consequentialism (in which I scored an 89), I attempted to tackle some problems with updating credences by integrating features from causal graphs, specifically Judea Pearl’s do-calculus, to develop an augmented conditionalisation function that pays close attention to the interaction between evidence and differing credences. LSE seems to have particular strengths in decision and game theory along with social choice. I would be interested in researching how Bayesian credences would vary in decision theory scenarios. 

I believe I am suitable for this course given my high-achieving academic results in my philosophy honours along with the philosophy of science seminar courses I have taken. At LSE I hope to gain a greater understanding of the topics that interest me and learn more about the philosophy of science. 

