My desire to pursue postgraduate study in the philosophy of science is based on my belief that philosophical work is useful in itself. I believe that my areas of interest, and the research projects I would like to pursue, match well with both a Philosophy of Science program and the faculty at UCL. I hope to eventually complete a PhD and continue to teach philosophy.

My honours thesis, which achieved a first class mark, explored questions in those last two areas by analysing problems of reliability within Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). In researching and writing my thesis, I found that the literature I was encountering came from the philosophy of science, and upon finishing the thesis, I found that I had produced a work closer to the philosophy of science than 'orthodox' philosophy. 

I first became interested in philosophical treatments of AI as a result of my interest in the philosophy of language, which developed out of a course I took in my second year that allowed me to write an essay on an inferentialist interpretation of Wittgenstein. I continued my interest in these topics in an honours class on the sociology of science run by the History and Philosophy of Science department (HPS). In this class, we read widely from the science and technology studies (STS) literature, including their approaches to technology. In this class I scored a high distinction (89).

My involvement with the HPS department also led to my participation in their postgraduate seminars. We met weekly and discussed topics from Lavoisier to Poincaré. Meetings were led by one member of the group on a text of their choosing. During my week, I chose to read "Objectivity" by Daston and Galison, which allowed me to explore problems of epistemology through a philosophy of science lens. I focused on questions relating to the representation of scientific objects and ideas, first exploring the antiquated, largely Linnaean, ideal of 'pure' or 'idealised' representation, and then the transition to a purely mechanical form of representation that repressed any 'subjective' influence of the scientist.

It was also through this reading group that I had the chance to meet Professor Ofer Gal, whose History of Science honours seminar class I took and for whom I am currently working as a research assistant. In his seminar class, I wrote my paper on the concept of a Darwinian "revolution" using the historiographical method of William H. Sewell, which scored a 90. Prof. Gal's current project is a history of the passions as an epistemological tool within early modern philosophy from Descartes to Spinoza. On Spinoza, I am also currently working on a paper with Professor Ofer Gal, in which we am attempting to tie his ideas to Thomas White. I have presented on this topic at Zhengzhou University. 

It was these experiences that led me to discover that the philosophy I wanted to be researching was actually within the history of philosophy and STS. This program offered by UCL seems perfect for my research interests.