Thomas White (1593–1676) and Baruch Spinoza (1632–1677) are both inheritors of the Cartesian tradition with some noteworthy similarities between their ideas, in particular, their brands of metaphysical monism and ideas of human freedom. This essay will attempt to explain some part of this resemblance. In the same vein as Pierre Macherey's (CITE) treatment of Hobbes and Spinoza, we will not attempt to sketch out "the various ways in which they agree on such and such point." Instead, we will try to explain how some features of their thoughts arose from the same source. 

White and Spinoza both extend upon the groundwork laid by the results and methods of Descartes in order to fully extend the Cartesian project of representing the world as a unified structure of causes and effects. For both White and Spinoza, this project failed because Descartes was either unwilling or unable to apply those same commitments to his concept of mind and, as a consequence, turned man into an \textsc{"imperium in imperio"} (an empire within an empire). It is important to note that this specific Latin phrasing is employed verbatim by both of our authors. Our argument begins by focusing on the transition in Descartes' philosophy of mind from his earlier work, the Meditations of 1641, to the Les Passions de l'âme, completed seven years later.

Interactions within this union are not asymmetrical (as they were previously). They are mutually affecting as "the soul has to move the body and the body to act on the soul, in causing sensations and passions" \footnote{AT 3:665, "nous n’avons que celle de leur union, de laquelle dépend celle de la force qu’a l’âme de mouvoir le corps, & le corps d’agir sur l’âme, en causant ses sentiments & ses passions."}. At another point, Descartes asserts that "there is no subject that acts more immediately upon our soul than the body which it is joined to" \footnote{AT 11:328, "Puis aussi je considère que nous ne remarquons point qu'il y ait aucun sujet qui agisse plus immédiatement contre notre âme, que le corps auquel elle est jointe ; et que par conséquent nous devons penser que"}. In SM, the mind is informed by the body but it is not moved; moving is unidirectional, from the mind to the body, whereas in the passions, the mind can be acted upon in a mechanical manner by the body \footnote{AT 6:130}.

We can call this conception of Descartes' mind the "weak" view (WM). The most marked shift from SM to WM is applying the language of movement to the mind, for Descartes "perceptions or sensations or emotions of the soul [...] are caused, maintained, and strengthened by some movement of spirits."\footnote{AT 11:349, "Des perceptions, ou des sentiments, ou des émotions de l’âme, qu’on rapporte particulièrement à elle, & qui sont causées, entretenues & fortifiées par quelque mouvement des esprits."} By developing the mind's affectibility to material components, we can view it as a material (and therefore liable to fixed laws) object. The mind still had a set of required functional responsibilities, but Descartes has also shown that these can be reallocated to the body. Previously, the passions (or emotions) were in the domain of the mind (or soul). However, within WM they are entirely conditioned by the material body.

For it must be observed that the principal effect of all the human passions
is that they move and dispose the soul to want the things for which they
prepare the body. Thus the feeling of fear moves the soul to want to flee,
that of courage to want to fight, and similarly with the others

the principal effect of all the passions in men, is that they incite and dispose their soul to will the things for which they prepare their body, in a way that that the sensation of fear incites it a wish to flee, that of boldness a wish to do battle, and so on for the others. \footnote{AT 11:359, "Car il est besoin de remarquer que le principal effet de toutes les passions dans les hommes, est qu’elles incitent & disposent leur âme à vouloir les choses aux-quelles elles préparent leur corps : en sorte que le sentiment de la peur l’incite à vouloir fuir, celui de la hardiesse à vouloir combattre, & ainsi des autres."}

Within the Passions, the immateriality of the mind can appear as a relic of the previous Cartesian system and, if viewed unfavourably, as an active contradiction. One could argue that the slow acquiescing of causal logic to the mind is the natural completion of his previous metaphysical commitments and method (as recorded in the first eight rules of his Regulae). Whether or not Descartes would have actually taken this to its ultimate conclusion and fully mechanised the mind is unknown, since removing it entirely hinges upon whether its functional responsibilities can be reallocated to the body. The more radical inheritors of the Cartesian tradition, of which I count both White and Spinoza, have this uneasy relationship between mind and reality as their starting point and take two alternate approaches towards resolving it. White partitions the responsibilities of the mind to various parts of the body, while maintaining it as a metaphysical entity in name only. Spinoza tries to legitimise the mind as a coherent physical and causal object.  

\section{}

Thomas White arrived slightly earlier in time than Spinoza. He was a student of the Jesuits in St. Omer, turned Catholic theologian, a lifelong friend of Kenelm Digby (as noted in Aubrey's brief lives \footcite{aubrey1898brief}), and explicitly connected with figures such as Descartes, Hobbes, and Pascal, as recorded in Mersenne's biography\footcite{mersenne1945correspondance}. Southgate \citeyearpar{southgate1993covetous} notes his relevancy as a "representative of that fascinating period which marks the transition between an essentially 'mediaeval' outlook and our own." \footnote{\citet[~p. 6]{southgate1993covetous} In understanding him, we can better grasp what lies on either side of him temporally.

Within his "Exclusion of Scepticks," White mounts his attacks against Cartesian thought by targeting Joseph Glanvill, a contemporaneous adherent of Cartesian views. He argues that Glanvill, and Descartes by extension, maintain the necessity of the soul because the body alone cannot make out "Quantities, Distances, Figures and Colours of things" (Glanvill, Scepsis, 32). These properties, being mathematical or geometrical in nature, were privy to interpretation only by the intellect. White follows the same logic that Descartes employed in his _Passions_, except with a more radical conclusion: If the body could take on one function of the mind (the passions), why could it not take on all of them? Following this, White concludes that the body can subsume this role of comprehending mathematical properties.

White performs this operation of transferring duties from the mind to the body multiple times. Previously "mental" operations become physical and causal as a result: "The first stroke produces Knowledge; the later, actual Memory." \footnote{\citet[~p. 102-104]{white}} In depreciating the function of the mind, he is removing any need for it. He inverts Descartes' view that "anything in us that we cannot conceive of as being somehow had by a body must be attributed to our soul." \footnote{AT 11:329, "doit être attribué qu’à notre corps ; et au contraire, que tout ce qui est en nous, et que nous ne concevons en aucune façon pouvoir appartenir à un corps, doit être attribué à notre âme."} However, if everything can be attributed to our body, what remains of the soul?

In White's original rebuttal to Glanvill, he accuses the Cartesians of mistakenly believing that "the Soul in the Body [is] a kind of thing, not the form or affection of the thing, Man" \footnote{\citet[~p. 35]{white1665exclusion}}. The trap was assuming that a new non-physical entity is required in order to properly comprehend these properties. In his rejection, he returns the soul (or mind) to its Aristotelian origin. \footnote{A noticeable feature of his thought is the lack of any doctrinal purity, a fact which led to Hobbes remarking that he was "torn between two obligations" \citet[~p. 162]{hobbes1976thomas}.}

In comparison to White, Spinoza's influences are harder to track down. While he undoubtedly read Descartes, his metaphysics can be reasonably traced to a number of different places \footcite{Wolfson1934-WOLTPO-4}. One could view his turn towards mechanisation as emblematic of the time, using White as a foregoing example. However, Spinoza's reasoning of causality is framed in the language of the passions in a number of places. For him, passions are as deterministic as any other cause and effect relationship: "So the infant believes he freely wants the milk; the angry child, that he wants vengeance; and the timid, flight" (\citet[The Ethics III P2]{deSpinoza1985-DESTCW-2}).

Unlike White, Spinoza does not bother with slowly diminishing the functionality of the mind; instead, he starts from the premise that it is operated causally. He writes in his \textit{Tractatus de Intellectus Emendatione} that the ancients believed "that true science proceeds from cause to effect, except that, as far as I know, they never conceived the soul, as we are here doing, as acting according to fixed laws." \footnote{\citet[85]{hobbes1976thomas}}His point is that the soul, or the mind, is also liable to fixed physical laws usually applied to nature. We find this corroborated in the Ethics:

"So it follows that when men say that this or that action of the Body arises from the Mind, which has dominion over the Body, they do not know what they are saying, and they do nothing but confess, in fine-
sounding words, that they are ignorant of the true cause of that action" \footenote{\citet[E IIIP2]{deSpinoza1985-DESTCW-2}}

As a consequence of this approach, nothing needs to be reshuffled from the mind to the body. The mind remains distinct but is equally causal nonetheless. If related back to Descartes, one could argue that Spinoza's method was to rigorously apply the Cartesian framework of matter-in-motion from the very beginning. The reliability of this commitment is based on whether making the mind causal is contradictory, i.e., can a mind be causal and maintain its functional roles? Spinoza answers in the affirmative \footcite{renz2018explainability}.

Both White's and Spinoza's jump to monism can be explained, in part, by reference to this shared mechanisation of the mind. The requirement for a dualistic world is less convincing when its use was reliant on a mind that can now be reformulated as a material object. A fully mechanised world does not require an immaterial realm. White's brand of monism is based on a uniformity of matter, in which "the four elements are not qualitatively different," that is, "they do not consist of different sorts of matter, but rather are varied manifestations of different quantities of the same matter." \footnote{\citet[~p.200]{white1646institutionum}} The world is an "immanent unity of the singular, distinguishable object, on which all variety is founded."\footnote{\citet[~p.199]{white1646institutionum}} Spinoza's monism is that of a unified substance with a variety of different modes.

White, Institutions, 200 (PSII)