1. Abstract
	1. In This Paper...
2. General Background
	1. Probabilism, Terminology
	2. The need for conditionalization 
3. What are the current implementations of Conditionalization 
	1. Justification via
		1. Probabilism (coherence)
		2. Veritism (Truth-oriented epistemic values)
		3. Epistemic Consequentialism (utility-based norms)
	2. Current conditionalization implementations
		1. Jeffrey Conditionalization, imprecise probabilities, prediction markets
4. Problems with these implementations 
	1. What they don't take into account 
	2. Meachem
5. Scoring Rules
	1. What makes a proper scoring rule (Pettigrew)
6. New Evidence Scoring Rule
	1. Implementation
		1. Bayesian Neural Networks 
	2. Strengths 

[[Formulation of Probabilism]]

[[Current Accounts of Conditionalization]]

[[Problems with Conditionalization]]

We will be advancing a non-factive account of conditionalization. 


A subject should update their credences not at the exact time they receive evidence, but only when a particular credence is re-evaluated at a particular time $t$. Pettigrew labels this a change in 'awareness'. 

Evidence only leads you to update the credences that are related. It is absurd to say that all of your credences are re-evaluated when presented with a new piece of evidence. It is only related credences that are re-evaluated. 

Modelling an augmented conditionalization function that takes into account 
1. When tour 'awareness' grows or when you 'reflect' (when you become aware of possibilities and propositions you have not entertained before time t)
2. When you doubt your own knowledge/competence. 


Other Questions:
Weighted Scoring Rules as a way to Justify Evidential Norms. 
How can we integrate evidence into scoring rules. In Keeping with probabilism. 
Evidential scoring function (Using a loss function), applied with a bias weight. Weighted Scoring Function

Credence functions be causally calculated as downstream of credences in certain other credences. 

A scoring function of Evidential norms which employs weighted credences. 



Things to Mention:
Is there any current problem with probabilism that requires a greater amount of care when dealing with evidence 
Why current conditionalization measures fail 
Evaluating current Conditionalization methods that update credences. Conditionalization as an "ideal" to which to aim, a description of optimal performance in the epistemic realm" Christensen (2004)
What should we take into account when evaluating evidence in relation to credence changes. 




