Every day in Emmendingen and Gundelfingen, as well as in Amsterdam, man has the opportunity to reflect on the facts of all earthly things, if he wants to, and to be satisfied with his fate, even if there are not many roast pigeons flying around in the air for him.  
  
But in the strangest of detours, a German craftsman in Amsterdam came to the truth and its realisation through error. For when he arrived in this large and rich trading city, full of splendid houses, surging ships and bustling people, a large and beautiful house immediately caught his eye, the like of which he had never seen in all his travelling from Duttlingen to Amsterdam.  
  
For a long time he gazed in amazement at this precious building, the six chimneys on the roof, the beautiful cornices and the high windows, larger than the door of his father's house at home. At last he could not resist addressing a passer-by. ‘Good friend,’ he said to him, ’can't you tell me the name of the gentleman who owns this beautiful house with its windows full of tulips, starflowers and levkoyas?’ - But the man, who presumably had something more important to do, and unfortunately understood just as much of the German language as the questioner did of the Dutch, namely nothing, said briefly and snappishly: _‘Kannitverstan’_; and purred past.  
  
Passing from pass to pass, he came at last to the gulf called Het Ey, or the Ypsilon. There stood ship after ship, and mast after mast; and at first he did not know how he would manage with his two single eyes to see and observe all these curiosities sufficiently, until at last a large ship attracted his attention, which had recently arrived from the East Indies and was now being unloaded. There were already whole rows of crates and bales lined up and side by side on the shore. Several more were still being rolled out, and barrels full of sugar and coffee, rice and pepper, and lots of mouse droppings underneath. But when he had watched for a long time, he finally asked someone who was carrying a crate out on his armpit what the lucky man was called to whom the sea was bringing all these goods ashore. _“Kannitverstan”_ was the answer.  
  
Then he thought: Haha, does it look like that? No wonder, whoever the sea washes such riches ashore has such houses to put in the world, and such tulipans in front of the windows in gilded shards. Now he went back again, and made a rather sad reflection upon himself, what a poor man he was among so many rich people in the world.  
  
But just then he thought: If only I had it as good as this Mr. Kannitverstan has it, he turned a corner and saw a large funeral procession. Four black-cloaked horses pulled a hearse, also covered in black, slowly and sadly, as if they knew they were leading a dead man to his resting place. A long procession of friends and acquaintances of the deceased followed, couple after couple, cloaked in black coats and silent. A lone bell rang in the distance. Now our stranger was seized by a melancholy feeling, which no good man can pass by when he sees a corpse, and he remained standing reverently with his hat in his hands until everything was over. But he approached the last man in the procession, who was silently calculating what he could gain from his cotton if the hundredweight were to rise by ten guilders, took him gently by the coat and asked him faithfully for some biscuits. ‘It must have been a good friend of yours,’ he said, ’who rang the bell for you to go along so sadly and thoughtfully.’ - _"Kannitverstan!_ ’ was the answer. Then a few big tears fell from our good Duttlinger's eyes, and his heart was suddenly heavy and then light again.  
  
‘Poor Kannitverstan,’ he exclaimed, ’what have you now of all your wealth? What I will get from my poverty one day: a burial robe and a sheet, and of all your beautiful flowers perhaps a rosemary on my cold chest, or a rue.’ With these thoughts he accompanied the corpse, as if he belonged to it, to the grave, saw the supposed Mr Kannitverstan descend to his resting-place, and was more moved by the Dutch funeral sermon, of which he did not understand a word, than by many a German one, to which he paid no attention.  
At last he went away again with the others with a light heart, ate a piece of Limburg cheese with a good appetite in an inn where they understood German, and, when it once more struck him that so many people in the world were so rich, and he so poor, he thought only of Mr Kannitverstan in Amsterdam, of his large house, his rich ship, and his narrow grave.