Representations & Counterfactuals [[Script]]

Simulation Theory requires the Backdrop of a narrative 
Empathy, Folk Psychology, Counterfactuals in Imaginary Friends, Literature, Narrative 

[[General Points of Inclusion]]

We argue that the literature on imaginary friends can serve to strengthen any narrative accounts. 

Point 0:
[[Preliminaries]]

To start, we need to establish the preliminaries for what warrants a narrative account of empathy. 
What is empathy under a narrative account? 
Brief Background: why a narrative account works over a simulationist account. "The crowning jewel of a narrative retelling is that it allows us to easily make sense of our emotions relating to fictional characters."

Point 1: What is the narrative account of empathy?
Subpoint: What is narrative? (bullet point list of the conditions for a narrative)
Case Study: Application to fiction, does it fulfil the conditions? 

Point 2: Challenges to the narrative account
The challenges towards narrative accounts can be put as follows: (Bullet point list)

1. The rules have to be 'internalised' pg.153 Bailey


Point 3: How do imaginary companions fix this challenge? 

Subpoint: What are imaginary companions exactly? 

Do imaginary companions fulfil the conditions for a narrative account? 



Point 1: Narrative and Imaginary Friends serve a similar purpose. As a way to scaffold experience. 
___
Preliminary points: Narrative Accounts of Empathy 

Conditions of Sympathy vs Empathy Conditions. I.e., are we talking about sympathy or empathy? 

Collectively sufficient conditions for empathy 

1. The affectivity condition: there is no empathy unless both target and empathizer experience some affective state. The affectivity condition distinguishes both empathetic and sympathetic experiences from standard mindreading.
2. The inter-personal similarity condition: there is no empathy unless the target’s and the empathizer’s affective states stand in a similarity relation to each other (i.e., both experience pain or both experience fear).
3. The vicarious state condition: the empathic state involves an “as if” or vicarious affective state, generated by the empathizer’s imaginative portrayal of another person’s affective state.
4. The ascription condition: there is no empathetic understanding unless the empathizer knowingly ascribes the affective state to the target.
5. The caring condition: the empathizer must be led to care about the target’s affective life because of context


Narrative Empathy 
1. What is narrative? 
	1. X gives the following definition for what constitutes a narrative. Express in a bullet point list  [[Narrative Scaffolding]]
	2. Background on how narrative already structures empathy
	3. Does a narrative view commit us to a simulationist position? 
	4. If it's needed for our further treatment of a child's action, then yes. If not, then no. 

Narrative accounts as relating to empathy
1. Acts as the way the essay ties in together. 

Case study: How does a narrative view work in relation to fiction? 

**Counterpoint**: We only classify this as a narrative account because we are forced into using the language of storytelling to explain ourselves? 


Challenge to the Narrative account that a a reference to imaginary companions can fix. 


Point: Do child apply this narrative account to their own life, furthermore, do they apply it to their IFr. 

1. What the adult is seeing the child doing
2. What the child believes they are doing
3. What is actually happening in the child's mental state 





Point: Can a child fulfil the criterion of empathy as applied to an imaginary friend? 


Relation to empathy? 

Simulationist vs Narrative accounts 


Simulation Theory vs Narrative for Child's imaginary friends 

Our goal in this paper is modest. We want to show that a child's imaginary friends help them scaffold experience in a way that allows for the construction of narratives, instead of a simulation theory. 