Source
[[A Formal Framework for Computer Simulations; Surveying the Historical Record and Finding Their Philosophical Roots]]
[[Deep Learning Opacity in Scientific Discovery]]
[[Beyond generalization; a theory of robustness in machine learning]]

MAIN CLAIM: DNNs are a type of instrument -> can be broken down into two. ADD MAIN CLAIM FOR EACH SECTION. or call it 

What exactly are DNNs? 
What exactly are DNNs within the context of research? Due to their unique epistemological challenges and varied use in scientific discovery, they have been classified as a number of things. From mathematical processes to problem solving techniques (Hartmann, 1996, Frigg \& Reiss 2009, Napoletani et al, 2011). Discovery, in this context, refers to empirical discovery and is a collection of methods which observe the world in order to produce knowledge. An experiment, for example, is a specific instantiation of this process. We say we perform an experiment on a phenomenon or system, X when we can construct X or find a way to causally interfere with X through the usage of certain scientific instruments or techniques (Heidelberger 2005).

Arguments which place DNNs in-between these categories extend from analogous arguments placed on computer simulations. The reasoning being that a DNN are a supposed subset of computer simulation methods and should be subject to parallel treatment (cite Computational artifacts: Towards a philosophy of computer science). On the surface level, DNNs share multiple similarities with computer simulations. For example, both function by attempting to predict the possible future state of a system given some input data (CITE Symons & Boschetti, 2013). 

However, as noted by Alvarado (CITE) computer simulations differ from statistical algorithms (which DNNs are a type of) by "fulfill[ing] a different function, perhaps a more epistemic function". The main break difference between computer simulations and statistical algorithms is that the latter can be used to test \textit{possible} causal relationships, whereas the former is always constructed when a causal relationship is fully established. Due to this, Alvarado classifies statistical algorithms, and DNNs by extension, as a type of instrument within scientific discovery. 

Immediately, we can spot multiple similarities between scientific instruments and DNNs. Both in how they are used (to predict and model) and their position within an experimental context. In fact, the classifications of DNNs as a model is exceptionally common (models being a type of scientific instrument) (cite) showing that there is already a implicit acceptance that DNNs are instruments. Despite this designation, few attempts have been made to tie this label in with the epistemology of instruments within the philosophy of science \footnote{The exception being Alvarado. who draws from the the literature on instruments but does not cover questions of reliability}. 

However, in accepting that DNNs are a type of scientific instrument raises multiple questions regarding their epistemic situation. Firstly, what types of scientific instrument are there. Secondly, what are the epistemic commitments of a scientific instrument, i.e. how do we trust, rely on, or justify these objects? In attempting to answer these questions we argue for a distinction between two types of scientific instruments: causal and model. This is a division resembling, and inspired by, those drawn by past philosophers of science (Baird, Harre, Heidelberg). Our motivation in constructing these categories is to justify our separation of the training and deployment stages of the DNN, each of which, occupying different categories, is subject to distinct criteria of reliability.

___

To begin, we need to try and arrive at a definition of a scientific instrument. Kletzl (CITE) proposes that the category, as a whole, is an intuitive one. We follow in this approach by evaluating instruments by their function, instead of any stringent rule. Even current classifications of instruments do not ground themselves on a credible epistemic principle that justifies the collection of such different tools under the singular header of a ‘scientific instrument’. For example, there is still no widely accepted rationale for placing both the microscope and the large hadron collider in the same category. Attempts to remedy this have split the concept into multiple subcategories.

The first of such taxonomies, formulated in the 17th century, divided the label into ‘philosophical’ and ‘mathematical’ instruments (Taub, 2011, SS pg.73). The former concerned itself with 'pure truths' about nature's inner workings, primarily employed by 'natural philosophers,' and included tools such as telescopes and air pumps (Cite Kletzl) (Warner 1990). In essence, these philosophical instruments aimed to demonstrate hypotheses through the use of specific objects. In comparison, mathematical instruments were tools used for the measurement and manipulation of constructs, such as the quadrant. Historically, the division between both was not founded on any universal epistemic rule, instead the split grew out of certain social, e.g. commercial, interests (Taub, 2009). Generally, instruments were established by their functional use within scientific contexts. Generally, if an object was "manufactured and used to acquire knowledge" (Kletzl, Instrumentation as Epistemic Source pg. 2), it was a scientific instrument.  

The lack of a guiding epistemic principle dictating what makes an object into an instrument meant that any further sub-classification was discretionary. The obvious consequence being that some instruments can be argued to occupy both the mathematical and philosophical categories (van Helden 1983, 65). Despite this arbitrary labelling, more contemporary systems of instrument taxonomy still draw divisions along similar lines. 

Harre (2010, Equipment for an experiment) distinguishes between ‘instruments’ and ‘apparatus’. The former is causally related to the world as tools which reveal natural phenomena. For example, a litmus solution reveals whether a particular mixture is acidic or basic, exploiting acid and base theory within chemistry. The instrument works through _exploiting_ a causal connection with the world. Within this category are most measuring devices – e.g., rulers, thermometers, and clocks. The thermometer is widely considered the characteristic epistemological example of a scientific instrument (Citation within Kletzl “Russel”) and, like all instruments of this class, its usefulness is dependent on its ability to respond to certain changes within the world to produce a resulting phenomenon. In the case of a mercury thermometer, the mercury expands as the temperature of its surroundings increases.

In comparison, an apparatus is a tool which serves as an abstract model of some part of the world. In attempting to study the behaviour of ocean waves under controlled circumstances, we employ a specialised water tank constructed to model the behaviour of the ocean. Within this example, the water tank is an apparatus and performs an epistemic function by producing phenomena that is analogous to the conditions in the ocean. While there is no causal connection between the two, knowledge is produced through, and depends on, our model acting as a stand-in for the relevant phenomena (Harre 2010).

Baird (2004, Thing Knowledge) draws a similar distinction between three types of scientific instruments: models, devices that create phenomena, and measuring instruments. Models are similar to Harre's apparatus but include both mechanical and mathematical structures that define objects and their relationships (pg. 23). Therefore, for Baird, most models are conceptual instead of material. For example, mathematics models specify relations between objects through equations, such as the law of gravitation F=Gr2m1​m2​​, which relates mass and distance to the force of attraction. This broader conception of a scientific instrument is necessary for our later treatment of DNNs. 

Other systems of classification, such as Heidelberger’s (CITE), match Baird in allowing mathematical models to be instruments. He delineates four different roles a scientific instrument can play in the context of an experiment: Instruments that produce or split phenomena, modulate the behavior of phenomena, imitate phenomena, and represent phenomena.

What is the purpose of this exercise? Within each of the differing taxonomies, we can identify certain static features of scientific instruments, and demarcate two broad categories. Shared between every classification is a distinction between instruments that are constructed in order to pick up causal relationships within the world (_causal instruments)_, and instruments that are constructed in order to model the world (_model instruments)_. Harré’s apparatuses, Baird’s measuring instruments and phenomenon-producing devices, along with Heidelberger’s instruments that generate, split, or modulate phenomena, all broadly invoke the idea that these instruments causally detect relationships within the world. 

In the case of _causal instruments_, the instrument takes advantage of an established causal pathway. Modern electromagnetic motors, for example, operate on a theoretical principle that a current-carrying conductor in a magnetic field experiences a force, as expressed by the Lorentz force law. When an electric current passes through the motor’s coil, the interaction between the generated magnetic field of the coil and the permanent (or electromagnetically induced) magnetic field of the stator produces torque, causing rotational motion (CITE).

While these principles are well understood and established now, Michael Faraday, at the time of his original experiments on electromagnetism in 1821, was unaware of these guiding laws. His construction of the electric motor was based on his theorised, and underdeveloped, formulation of electromagnetic laws. If successful, his instrument would supported his theory by matching his hypothesized results (Faraday 1844, Thing Knowledge). Compared to contemporary motors, his device worked in a simpler fashion, in which a wire is suspended around a magnet allowing for the intersecting magnetic and electric fields to produce motion. The specific construction of the instrument depended on his working knowledge and the dynamics of the experiment. Therefore, the form that an instrument takes arises out of the backdrop of theory and experiment. Results produced from the instrument feed back into the theory and will always contain a necessary explanatory role. 

Despite the lack of completely accurate theoretical knowledge surrounding the behaviour of Faraday’s electromagnetic motor, the device was able to produce motion. Faraday did not have epistemic access to the underlying laws mediating the behaviour of his motor. He had a primitive theory of electromagnetism and constructed his motor around some posited causal connections. Any explanatory power came out of the instrument’s position within his greater theory. Strictly speaking, all the instrument did was produce motion. Explaining exactly why requires grounding in a certain theory, not necessarily a correct theory, but some sort of theory regardless.

_Model instruments_ (or just models) arise out of the same logic. However, their utility is qualitatively different as it depends on a representative function. As stated before, our treatment of these instruments follows from Baird (2004) in including mathematical formulas, such as statistical techniques or experimental methods (e.g. randomised control trials). While there are both material models (Watson and Cricks “ball and stick” DNA is an example) and conceptual models, our discussion will mainly focus on the latter. By and large, “a model is an interpretative description of a phenomenon that facilitates access to that phenomenon (Bailer-Jones, 2009, p.1).” Therefore, models are instruments which represent their target-phenomenon and facilitate the creation of explanatory theories regarding said phenomenon (Frigg & Hartmann 2020, Weisberg 2013 – analogue model citations).

For example, if we return to Faraday, the mechanics of his electromagnetic motor were empirically recorded to produce a set of mathematical models. Maxwell reformulated Faraday’s observations into a formula expressing the law of induction, expressed as such:

\nabla \times \mathbf{E} = -\frac{\partial \mathbf{B}}{\partial t}

(Faraday, Experimental Researches in Electricity, 1839)

The model was not constructed in isolation, but in response to a set of experimental outputs. These models, now known as Maxwell’s equations, are a type of _model instrument_ that both explains and predicts phenomena (Maxwell, A Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism, 1873).

___

These historical examples allow us to make the following claims about the usage and construction of scientific instruments. Firstly, they are produced in view of a (potentially incorrect) theory. Secondly, their explanatory quality comes out of this theory-dependence. As Harris explains, "Instruments do not produce uninterpreted [...] data" (2003, p. 1512). Returning to DNNs, what type of instrument are they? To answer this, we have to look at the contexts in which they are produced and utilised.

If we return to our explanation of SLT, DNNs are constructed only in view of a supposed theoretical relationship $f$ which can be predicted through a function $h$. A dataset $D$ is generated, with certain assumptions, in order to allow the DNN to pick up on this relationship. This is the training stage of the DNN and allows for the instrument's later predictive capacity. If _causal instruments_ pick up latent patterns within the world, then doesn’t a DNN – by picking up on a certain function – do exactly this? For example, a DNN being trained on radiology images directly 'responds' to the presence of a tumour by activating specific feature detectors and updating its internal architecture. 

Does this mean that DNNs are *causal instruments*? This type of labelling seems incorrect. After all, a DNN is mainly used to predict in a way similar to other statistical models and those are certainly not *causal instruments*. Their usage is strictly limited to modelling or prediction based on static parameters. If we look at a common usage of DNN technology - weather prediction - we can see that these models (e.g. graph neural nets for atmospheric flows) learn to approximate the underlying physics of weather and can generate forecasts without directly sensing temperature, pressure, or wind. This is a typical *model instrument*. 

This tension can be resolved by acknowledging the two parts of a DNN, the training phase and the deployment phase, which differ vastly in function and output. In the former example of tumour detection, we were describing the training stage of a DNN (which we will call the T-DNN). Whereas the latter example concerns the DNN in deployment. The T-DNN has its internal parameters modified in response to the training data, which is why we are able to claim it has a causal relationship with the world. Parameter changes depend on the specific causal structure of the data. However, in deployment the DNN no longer changes its parameters, it performs predictions based on an already constructed function and encodes the causal structure within its architecture. 

Are there any serious problems with this classification? An objection could be raised that the causal relationship being described merely reflects the minimization of a loss function, which would decrease regardless of whether any relationship exists in the input data. Therefore, the DNN is not picking up on any actual causal relationship within the world. While this is true, a model that decreases its loss function without picking up on any actual causal features ‘overfits’. In short, it arranges itself too tightly on the input data and fails to 'generalise', generalising being the ability for a DNN to extend beyond training data. If a DNN did not pick up on causal features within the world and instead just minimised loss on existing training data (which would be the necessary implication of the objection), it would not be able to extend its prediction far beyond the given training data. The predictive success of these systems gives us good reason to believe that they predict on something more than their input data.

In comparison, the deployment DNN is static. That is, it no longer changes its parameters. Do these parameters constitute a model? A model instrument, as explored before, is constructed in view of a theory in order to represent a certain target-phenomenon. Models are built to represent, usually through analogy, phenomena in the world and it is accepted that we have good reasons to believe that DNNs this target \footnote{However, they perform this in a distributed manner, which will be explored later}. Cite Sullivan, Roney & Ovchinnikov, 2022, Guo et al 20022 (put it to the test).

We can also see that this is intuitively true. Neural networks trace their history back to tools constructed to simulate the brain. While the technology has changed drastically, we can still see the analogy between both systems. Brains, through their neurons, have models of things that are communicated to us through mechanisms of conscious awareness. Given this, we should expect a similar phenomenon for systems built on parallel principles. The difference is that we do not have any sort of communicative equivalent, akin to conscious awareness, for DNNs.

The T-DNN needs to successfully align h with f and must be justified for reasons that contribute to its success in this domain. Whereas the deployment DNN needs to be an accurate model of the world. This relationship, and its contradictory nature, has only been described in respects to opacity (Boge Two Dimensions, Sullivan 2022a, Skogaard 2020). However, it is very relevant in evaluating how we can trust a DNN. DNNs contain parts that perform different functions, it should follow that different categories of instruments should demand varying types of justification. The types of reasoning we give in explaining our justification of the thermometer (an instrument under Harre, a measuring instrument according to Baird, an instrument that splits phenomena for Heidelberger, but generally a _causal instrument_) will differ from justifying our results from the usage of a wind tunnel (a _model instrument_) (Cite Duede and Baird). Both the thermometer and the wind tunnel have to be fulfil certain criteria in order to be justified. However, the conditions that each has to meet will differ.

We first need to answer how we can justify the usage of a normal (e.g. microscope) _scientific instrument_. A distinction needs to be drawn immediately between trust and reliance. Trust, in relation to objects, has been explored within both social epistemology and moral philosophy literature and is generally regarded as reliance along with something else (Baier, 1986; Hardin, 1996; Gerkin 2015). Reliance is a necessary but not sufficient condition for trust. We accept the stance that trust is a type of relationship that can only be directed towards other agents who possess certain dispositions, such as acting honestly or taking responsibility for their actions (Hatherley 2020, (Ryan, 2020 (deude instrument)).

 When we trust someone not to rob us, we are trusting in their moral conscience. Scientific instruments, which do not have emotive states or a moral conscience, cannot be the recipients of trust. They do not act meaningfully, but instead only function correctly and produce outputs. For example, when we use a pencil to write, we are not trusting it to perform its function; instead we are simply relying on it. Our focus will be on how an agent justifies their reliance on an object. 

It’s generally agreed that certain core reasons are required in the justification of results from a device (Lehrer 1995; Sosa 2011, Dahl pg. 572). Sosa’s (2006, Freiman Testimony) explanation of knowledge from instruments claims that our justified belief in the reliability of an instrument consists of a few factors. To start, the agent must have a level of knowledge concerning the construction of an instrument. Furthermore, the agent must have good reasons to believe that the instrument is working according to its construction. For models, Simon (2010, Dahl) characterises this as the _transparency_ of a system and in order for a system to be transparent — it cannot be opaque. 









