While many definitions of epistemic opacity have been given over the years with little consensus, the earliest and most popular one is Humphrey’s

“Here a process is epistemically opaque relative to a cognitive agent X at time t just in case X does not know at t all of the epistemically relevant elements of the process. A process is essentially epistemically opaque to X if and only if it is impossible, given the nature of X, for X to know all of the epistemically relevant elements of the process” (CITE HUMPHREY)

This definition of opacity asserts that a lack of knowledge of epistemically relevant elements is sufficient for a process P to be opaque. It’s important to note that opacity, despite manifesting out of certain properties of a system, is always in reference to a human agent. Humphrey (2009, pg. 617) characterises this opacity problem as a how “humans, can understand and evaluate computationally based scientific methods that transcend our own abilities”. We can see that the knowledge of an agent X plays an important role in whether a system is opaque or not. Therefore, a system can be opaque to one agent and not to another.

This definition of opacity asserts that a lack of knowledge of epistemically relevant elements is sufficient for a process P to be opaque. It’s important to note that opacity, despite manifesting out of certain properties of a system, is always in reference to a human agent. Humphrey (2009) characterises this opacity problem as a how “humans, can understand and evaluate computationally based scientific methods that transcend our own abilities”. (pg. 617) We can see that the knowledge of an agent X plays an important role in whether a system is opaque or not. Therefore, a system can be opaque to one agent and transparent to another. In which transparency is the ability to "decompose the process between model inputs and outputs into modular steps, each of which is methodologically acceptable both individually and in combination with the others" (Humphreys, 2004, pg. 148).

If transparency is defined in this way - We can say that for an agent to be aware of the epistemically relevant elements of a process, they must understand and grasp, in a conceptual way, the relationship and functions of each part of the system. 

However, this seems to present certain problems when viewed in relation to most scientific instruments. As Louis Bucciarelli (1994, Thing Knowledge pg.13) points out “Do you know how your telephone works?” (p.3, Designing Engineers). He explains that while one scientist might be able to explain one particular aspect of a telephones functioning (for example, how sound is produced by an electric current), they might not be able to parse the exact functioning of the algorithms employed in noise suppression (Cite Baird). Therefore, they are unable to fully ensure that the telephone is functioning as intended due to a lack of technical know-how, preventing transparency. This presents a general problem for most scientific discovery because every scientist utilises tools that they are unfamiliar with. For example, a biologist in the process of recording their results may use the data analytics tools of a spread-sheeting program that is technically opaque to them. Does this mean that scientists are unable to justify the usage of certain instruments that they employ?

Given the varied and distributed system of scientific research, large elements of trust are required since it’s impossible for an individual to double check and fully understand all the previous information they relies on. Research, especially those of large groups, produce work in which no singular agent can interpret each moving part. Hardwig (1985, Koskinen) states that in cases like this – of collective knowledge production - trust stands in for justification. Granted that this trust is regulated in a few ways (Frost-Arnold 2013). Some informal, for instance the belief that your scientific peers are acting honestly, and some regulated, such systems of peer-review. These procedures of epistemic checking, when followed correctly, reduce error and the role of trust within knowledge production (Wilholt, 2013).

As established before, instruments cannot be trusted - they can only be relied on. Therefore, in cases of scientific instruments, trust is warranted as long as there is an agent who “understands how the instruments work, takes responsibility of them in an epistemically acceptable manner, and can be trusted” (Koskinen pg. 7). Returning to our example of the biologist, we can justify their usage of technically opaque instruments as long as there is an agent, such as the manufacturer, that exists and can take responsibility. Results from large-scale scientific endeavours, such as the LHC, are justified on the basis that every part has an agent for which it is not epistemically opaque.

___
Therefore, there are certain types and levels of opaqueness which are produced by certain properties which prevent this 'decomposing'. Types of opacity explored in our previous examples seem to stem from a social nature. Generally, we can classify opacity in three types: systematic, technical, and social ([[Sources of Opacity in Computer Systems; Towards a Comprehensive Taxonomy]]). Both technical and social sources were covered briefly and concern an agent’s technical know-how and their resources. Alvarado (CITE) gives his formulation of social opacity: 

"Division of labor, proprietary limitations on access, intentional secrecy, etc. all contribute to making the workings of a system, process or device inaccessible to some while accessible to others, and hence generally, and relatively epistemically opaque as defined above." pg. 4 [[Alvarado Epistemic Opacity Types]]

However, these types of opacity are inevitable and are alleviated by a level of epistemic inter-dependence. Social opacity concerns the agent and their position and ability. In comparison, systematic opacity concerns the system and prevents an agent from knowing all epistemically relevant parts through no fault of the agent. 

Therefore, there must be some condition, or property, that when applied to a system, renders it epistemically opaque (San Pedro degrees of epistemic 2020). For example, in our previous section we saw how social factors prevented an agent from familiarising themselves with the parts of a system. If we continue with this logic, we can say that there are certain properties χ that induce opaqueness within a model, i.e. property χ when applied to a model prevent an agent from awareness of the epistemically relevant parts. Furthermore, the lack, or toning down, of this property increases the transparency of a system.

Most literature on opacity treats it as a binary property. For example, they would argue that if more than two χ properties are present, the lowering of one doesn’t change the opaqueness of a system. If we imagine a system that is opaque because of its dimensionality, modifying the size should not make a difference to the overall opaqueness. So, a system either is, or is not opaque without any in-between. However, if opacity is in respects to an agent understanding, then it seems fair to model it as a type of scale because if a model can have varying levels of opaqueness towards two different agents, then it is feasible to speak of a gradient of opaqueness. For example, it is fully possible for a system to be opaque to an agent at time t but to reduce that opacity at time t1 if an agent improves their knowledge in-between (Saam 2018). Therefore, we can also say that if a system has property $\chi$ then by lowering, or removing $\chi$, it reduces its opacity. Furthermore, different types of opaqueness produce different types of opacity. If we return to previous example – it seems we are dealing with both size-opaqueness and dimensionality-opaqueness.

Some attempts have been made to speak of ‘degrees of epistemic opacity’ (Duran and Formanek 2018, Lenhard 2018, San Pedro 2020). The importance of this is that, once a certain gradation of opacity has been established, we can implement methods to reduce the effect of an opaque property on a model. To accomplish this, we must also break down the different types of opaqueness. It seems that the type of opaqueness produced by social factors (such propriety limitations) differ from the type produced by the size of a system. 

Returning to our discussion of causal and model instruments. We are justified in trusting an instrument if there is an agent who is aware of all the epistemically relevant parts. What does epistemically relevant mean in reference to a causal instrument versus a model one? Because we have split the DNN into a causal instrument (training stage) and a model instrument (deployment stage). We need to evaluate the respective methods of justification for both types of instruments in relation to the process of the DNN. Furthermore, it seems that DNNs are opaque due to something about the system itself that prevents an agent grasping the epistemically relevant parts. To find out what this is, we need to identify what these epistemically relevant parts are. 

We argue that these parts differ for the T-DNN and the deployment DNN because they are different types of instruments with different functions.  A causal instrument needs to pick up on a certain causal relationship, whereas the model instrument needs to represent this relationship. Therefore, when justifying the results of the training stage of a DNN, we don't need to appeal to anything except the underlying architecture because the function of the instrument is to pick up on a function. For that reason the epistemically relevant parts of a T-DNN mainly concerns the pragmatic decisions made during pre-training and input data selection to ensure reliability. 

On the other hand, a model instrument needs to represent a function in a semantically intelligible way in order for an agent to justify the output. These instruments require a structure which is explanatory in regards to its causal decision making and the relationship with an underlying phenomenon. Therefore, the epistemically relevant parts of a model is both how it models the underlying phenomenon and how this is represented. Due to this, an agent needs to appeal to the encoded "higher-level" rules that a model uses. 






