To Investigate:
On Descartes’s aesthetic and psycho-perceptual innovations, see Racek (1930), Manuel (1957), Revault d’Allonnes (1951). De Buzon (in Descartes [1618] 1987: 5–18) identi¤es and gives a brief but insightful introduction to methodological and conceptual issues in the Compendium. To date, the most comprehensive analysis of the Compendium appears in Van Wymeersch (1999). 

Johannes Lohmann (1979)

Masterlist of Sources; 

Prelim; Scholarship on Descartes' Musicae Compendium can be divided into two broad camps: musical analysis and philosophical analysis. The former deals with [...]



The latter. 

For discussions of Descartes's *Compendium*, see; [[The Cambridge Descartes Lexicon; Lawrence Nolan; 2015]];  [[The Compendium Musicae and Descartes’s Aesthetics; Frédéric de Buzon; 2019]]; 

For contemporaneous (correct word?) responses to the Musicae; see [[The Compendium Musicæ of René Descartes; Early English Responses]]
-

For a discussion of Descartes geometrization of music and how the Compendium anticipates the future development of Cartesian physics; see [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]]
	"in the Compendium he attempted to demystify the power of music and substitute for it a geometry of sensation [... ] The Compendium attempts to do precisely this, and thus anticipates the development of what is the mainspring of Cartesian physics: mechanism" pg.122

Despite establishing the mechanical nature of the senses, Augst maintains that "nowhere in the Compendium is the reliability of the sense organs questioned" pg. 120
-

For a discussion of order and representation in the Compendium musicae; Specifically, how Descartes reorients Aristotelian ideas through his mechanisation of sense-perception; see [[The Representation of Order; Perception and the Early Modern Subject in Descartes’s Compendium musicae]]
-

Primary source quotation: 
Source on Descartes thinking alone causal lines early in his life, 
	"Thus, already in 1618, he considered the function of sensory perception to be based on the same principle as that governing gadgets like pulleys" [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]] pg. 132
-

Besseler (1959: 30, 41) points out the emphasis Descartes placed on the hearer, see also Hatten (CITE found in order and representation text)
-

For how the Musicae Compendium connects with the Regulae; please see  [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]] &
Weber specifically connects the method in the Musicae to the Rules of the Regulae citing a letter to beeckman. [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]] pg. 125
[[La Constitution du texte des Regulae; Jean-Paul Weber; 1960]]



Other primary source quotations: 
 Letter to Mersenne 18.iii.1630
		1. "You ask whether there’s a discoverable essence of beauty. That’s the same as your earlier question as to why one sound is more pleasing than another, except that the word ‘beauty’ seems most at home with the sense of sight. But in general ‘beautiful’ and ‘pleasing’ each signify merely a relation between our judgement and an object; and because men’s judgements are so various, there can’t be any definite standard of beauty or pleasingness. I can’t explain it any better than I did in my treatise on music [Compendium Musicae]. I have it right here, and will quote the passage word for word" 

Misc Sources
[[Descartes and Seventeenth-Century Music; Arthur W. Locke; 1935]] pg. 428, for primary source quotations
[[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]]
[[The Compendium Musicae and Descartes’s Aesthetics; Frédéric de Buzon; 2019]] esp. pg. 257-259

___

1. For more/greater discussion of this; please find x
	1. I.e., Books written on adjacent or the same topic
	2. For discussions of Descartes's *Compendium*, see; [[The Cambridge Descartes Lexicon; Lawrence Nolan; 2015]]; [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]]; [[The Compendium Musicae and Descartes’s Aesthetics; Frédéric de Buzon; 2019]]
	3. For a discussion of Descartes geometrization of music and how the Compendium anticipates the future development of Cartesian physics; see [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]]
		1. "Thus, three years before the appearance of one of the most famous of Cartesian metaphors, the animal-machine, and ten years before writing the "Fable" of his World, there is in this early exercise on music the initial intent of Descartes's thought. Just as he was later to substitute the image of a machine of cosmic proportions of crude a-geometrical reality of the pre-cartesian universe, in the Compendium he attempted to demystify the power of music and substitute for it a geometry of sensation" pg. 122
		2. "The Compendium attempts to do precisely this, and thus anticipates the development of what is the mainspring of Cartesian physics: mechanism"

2. For a discussion of order and representation in the Compendium musicae; see [[The Representation of Order; Perception and the Early Modern Subject in Descartes’s Compendium musicae]]
	1. "My analysis assumes the perspective of cognitive perception: how the sense of hearing connects to and is comprehended by the intellect. From a broader historical perspective, I view Descartes as reconfiguring the relationship between subject and object in acts of aural perception. I view this reconfiguration as a reflection of an epistemological attitude that is determined by the introduction of a new, subject-centered aesthetics sanctioned, most significantly, by a new conception of representation" pg. 52
	2. Hatten (CITE) views Descartes "as reconfiguring the relationship between subject and object in acts of aural perception. I view this reconfiguration as a reflection of an epistemological attitude that is determined by the introduction of a new, subject-centered aesthetics sanctioned, most significantly, by a new conception of representation" (pg. 52)
		1. I.e., for a discussion of how the Musicae already showcases Descartes tension between subject and object in acts of perception. 

For the emphasis that Descartes places on the listener 
1. Besseler (1959: 30, 41) points out the emphasis Descartes placed on the hearer: “Es ist bedeutsam, daß Descartes zum erstenmal in der Geschichte des Musikschrifttums nicht von der Musik selbst ausgeht, sondern vom Hörer . . . und der Einbildungskraft, so kennzeichnet sich damit die neue Lage.” Footnote 31 [[The Representation of Order; Perception and the Early Modern Subject in Descartes’s Compendium musicae]]


2. For more instances of the argument put forward here; please find x
	1. Augst (1965) also establishes the mechanical nature of the senses. 
		1. "It should be observed that nowhere in the Compendium is the reliability of the sense organs questioned" pg. 120 [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]]
			1. Augst continues: "The organism conceived by Descartes, least to the extent it can be reconstituted on the basis of the treatise, selects and channels sensations to the soul"
				1. "Secondly, it is an attempt to reduce sensory perception to a strictly mechanical, and therefore measurable, function." pg. 131
		2. However, when a sound is unpleasant, he correctly identifies that this is not a problem with the causal sensory organ ("i.e. unpleasant to the soul (the problem of error is not touched upon in the Compendium it is not because the senses cannot be trusted", Augst also notes that "the sensory organs are autonomous, self-regulating, and function independently of the soul"), but attributes all fault to the object itself ("but because the intrinsic nature of the object perceived is not particularly suitable for producing satisfactory perception") and it's "ease of perception", or inversely, the "strain the put on the sense organs". 
	2. For how the Musicae Compendium connects with the Regulae; please see  [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]] & [[La Constitution du texte des Regulae; Jean-Paul Weber; 1960]]

3. For comparisons/opposing arguments; please find x
	1. Mersenne concludes that “Music may be called the Perspective of hearing, as Perspective is the Music of the eye.”20  For Mersenne, musical harmony, like linear perspective in visual perception, is embedded in the “Geometrie” of the objects themselves and their relations to each other."
		1. However, for Descartes, the proportion between parts "must be arithmetic and not geometric, since geometric proportion introduces irrational quantities that are hard to identify sensibly" (Buzon pg. 257). Discussion of this arithmetic division of music can be found in [[The Compendium Musicae and Descartes’s Aesthetics; Frédéric de Buzon; 2019]] esp. pg. 257-259

4. Elaborating information; e.g. Descartes also expressed x which contradicts this point, which can be explained as x. 
	1. Other letters to Mersenne further show this sort of thinking (naturalising the senses as purely causal)
	2. Letter to Mersenne 18.iii.1630
		1. "You ask whether there’s a discoverable essence of beauty. That’s the same as your earlier question as to why one sound is more pleasing than another, except that the word ‘beauty’ seems most at home with the sense of sight. But in general ‘beautiful’ and ‘pleasing’ each signify merely a relation between our judgement and an object; and because men’s judgements are so various, there can’t be any definite standard of beauty or pleasingness. I can’t explain it any better than I did in my treatise on music [Compendium Musicae]. I have it right here, and will quote the passage word for word" 
			> Among the objects of the senses, those most pleasing to the mind are neither the easiest to perceive nor the  hardest, but the ones that are not •so easy to perceive that they don’t fully satisfy the natural inclination of the senses towards their objects and not •so hard to perceive that they tire the senses.
		2. "Secondly, what inclines some people to dance may incline others to weep. This is purely because it stirs up ideas in our memory:"
			> This is so certain that I think that if you whipped a dog five or six times to the sound of a violin, it would begin to howl and run away as soon as it heard that music again.
			1. He extends this sort of phenomenon to the human. 
	3. Descartes exact thoughts on the aesthetics of music seem are sometimes contradictory. Writing to Mersenne he states that "the intervals of the third and the sixth are more agreeable than the interval of the fourth, and the major intervals are more appropriate for gay songs and minor intervals for sad songs,". Whereas, in another letter he writers that "I do not recognise any qualities in the consonances that correspond to the passions" [[Descartes and Seventeenth-Century Music; Arthur W. Locke; 1935]] pg. 428


5. More primary source quotations
	1. Descartes might have been thinking along these causal lines even earlier: 
		1. "Thus, already in 1618, he considered the function of sensory perception to be based on the same principle as that governing gadgets like pulleys" [[Descartes's Compendium on Music; Bertrand Augst; 1965]] pg. 132
			1. according to which, for example, a force capable of lifting a weight of one hundred pounds to a height of two feet can also lift a weight of two hundred pounds one foot high, or four hundred pounds half a foot high. . . . (_Treatise on Mechanics,_ A.T., I, 435f.)


