info@clothieranderson.com.au

To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing in respects to a visa cancellation. On the 1st of June I received a Section 128 - Verification of Contact Details email from "studentvisa.offshore@homeaffairs.gov.au". Upon checking my visa status on VEVO I found that I do not currently posses an active Australian visa, whereas before I held a subclass 500 visa. Given the subject line of the email, I assume that my visa has been cancelled under section 116 and section 128 because I am overseas. 

The full chain of events is as follows: 

I first entered Australia on the 14th of Feb 2022 to study for a Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Advanced Studies at the University of Sydney. I have attached my first visa grant entitled "IMMI Grant Notification 2021". In my third year I applied and was accepted for an honours year and had a second visa granted on the 2nd of August 2023 that expired on the 21st of September 2026. I have attached this under the filename"IMMI Grant Notification". I have also attached my passport information. 

My course completion date was on the 9th of Jan 2026, I have attached this under the filename "CourseCompletionLetter". Despite receiving a 'Class I' for my final honours mark, I remained in the country after my course completion date for the following reasons: 

First was to discuss with a few professors my chances at achieving a higher grade (and therefore a chance at the university medal) if I submitted my thesis for remarking. 

(How should I phrase this? Assisted a professor in research, or conducted research while being assisted by a professor?)
Second was to assist a professor with his research, and conduct my own research at his assistance. This research is now being presented at an international conference in China in June. 

Third was to attend my graduation scheduled for the fifth of May.

I did not apply for a bridging or work visa as my intension was to return to Australia in January of 2027 in hopes of beginning a medical degree. In September 2025 I sat the GAMSAT (medical admissions test) and scored very well. Given my result and my GPA, it is very likely that I would be accepted to an Australian institution for postgraduate medical studies. 

I returned to Hong Kong on the 18th of May 2026. 

On the 1st of June, I received a email from "studentvisa.offshore@homeaffairs.gov.au" with the subject line "Section 128 - Verification of Contact Details - Rajora, Ahan (01 May 2003, M) CID 60374764208 - File ref BCC2026/2961589 [SEC=OFFICIAL]". On the same day I replied to the email with my current overseas address and email (the same email they originally contacted me on). I have attached both the original email and reply in pdf form. 

On the 3rd of June I checked my visa status on VEVO and found that I do not currently possess an active Australian visa. Given the email I received contained "Section 128", I became concerned my visa has been cancelled.  

On the 9th of June 2026, I sent a reply to the original email of contact details asking what the email "Verification of Contact Details" concerns, but have received no reply. As of the current date (the 16th of June 2026), I have not received this notice either in physical mail or in my email.

Please let me know if a consultation is possible and when it can be scheduled. If you require anything else, for example certain documents, please let me know. I look forward to hearing from you. 

(How to finish?)




