Days till ZhengZhou: 10 

FINISH WHITE AND SPINOZA ESSAY AND PRESENTATION. 
1. What were both of their worries 
2. What is it that, if Spinoza read White, White filled in for him - that he went 'aha'
3. Do not fall into a pure psychologism, but these figures are men first. What is it, as men, that concerned them. In their biographies 
4. Politics to ontology maybe? 

Apply one more med school: Maquaire 

Finish CV 

Book China tickets + Plan Trip
Hong Kong to Zhengzhou 
Zhengzhou leave 26th morning or 25th evening 


Email Ofer about the programs. 

Draft Email:

EMAIL FROM IMMIGRATION: that the guy gave 
studentvisa.offshore@homeaffairs.gov.au


Nick Smith Email
___
Subject: Ahan Rajora; Letter of Recommendation Follow up. 

Hi Nick,
Hope all is well, I'm writing in regards to the previous letter of recommendation you wrote for me. I'm applying for two more masters programs in the UK which I mentioned before. One at UCL (link) and one at LSE (link). Let me know if it's still possible for you to submit your previous LoR to the application portals for both these universities. If there's anything else you need please let me know and thanks once again. 

If it all looks good, I'll submit and they should send their request for LoR submission. 

Warm Regards,
Ahan

Email
___
Hi Ofer,
Thanks for the meeting yesterday, it was good seeing you. How was zoom compared to real life? 

As mentioned, I'm applying for three more programs in London: 

A history and philosophy of science course at UCL (link), a philosophy of science course at LSE, and a straight philosophy course at both KCL. In terms of specificity, the previous LoR you wrote for me was for philosophy, so I think you can resubmit this for KCL. 

As for UCL and LSE, it's a philosophy of science course so emphasising my participation in your course/reading groups, or whatever is relevant, might be best. I'll submit the applications shortly so you should get the link from them soon.

I'l also send you the presentation/notes for Zhengzhou soon. If you get a chance to take a look at it, let me know what you think. See you then!

Ahan

CTS Draft
___
To Whom it May Concern,
On the 6th of June I submitted my application for a one time travel permit to China and provided follow up documents on the 8th of June. My application details are as follows: RRPA0002001. 

This one time travel permit was necessary so I could attend an important international academic conference at Zhengzhou university that starts on the 22nd of June. On the date that I provided follow up documents I was told that my permit would be provided on the 24th of June. 

My questions are as following: 
1. Do I have to physically pick up this one time travel permit, or is it accredited to me digitally? 
2. Is there any way to expedite this process considering that if I have to pick up the travel card, I will functionally miss my conference. 

Thank you for your time and I look forward to your response. 


Draft Email
___
info@clothieranderson.com.au

To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing in respects to a visa cancellation. 

The chain of events are as follows: 

1st June: I received a email from "studentvisa.offshore@homeaffairs.gov.au" with the subject line "## Section 128 - Verification of Contact Details - Rajora, Ahan (01 May 2003, M) CID 60374764208 - File ref BCC2026/2961589 [SEC=OFFICIAL]". I have attached a copy of this email in pdf form. 

On the same day, 1st of June, I replied to the email with my current overseas address and email (the same email they originally contacted me on)
