the Nerves be well fill'd with Spirits, and
that the extrinsecall parts be strong; but
Sensation needs only a clam and clear disposition
of the Humour contain'd in those
Nerves: 'tis plain, both that there may be
Sensation without Motion, and Motion
without Sensation.
6. It appears, too, why the Memory is
set a work by the Similitude, as also by the
connection of Objects: For, since, in a liquid
body, things that are alike naturally
gather together, and are apt to stick to
one another; and, since those things
which enter together and at once must necessarily
attain a kind of connection,
which is easily preserv'd in the clammy nature
of the Brain; when, by any means
they are brought again to the fountain of
sensation, they must needs meet there together,
and in a kind of Order.
7. But, since contraries use to enter together
into the internall sense, and make
one another more taken notice of; 'tis
plain, if Hunger provokes the Animal, 'twill
remember Meat, if Thirst, Drink, if Seed,
the Female. Whence, it appears, that Passion
and Will stir up the Memory: as also other
causes, too, which, by pouring in
spirits, sweep or brush, as it were, the

106

Brain; and for that these causes do this
by accident, they are all comprehended
under the name of Chance.

==="So the infant believes he freely wants the milk; the angry child that he wants vengeance; and the timid, flight. So the drunk believes it is from a free decision of the mind that he speaks the things that later, when sober, wishes he had not said. So the madman, the chatterbox, the child, and a great many people of this kind believe they speak from a free decision of the Mind, when really they cannot contain their impulse to speak.

8. It appears, again, that they, whose
brain is of a thin and hot constitution, easily
apprehend, conjecture happily, opine rashly
and changeably: they, whose disposition
is more dry and thin, have a good Memory
and rememberance too, but opine lightly
and changeably.